ACD-315 (#5)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: PIM/Operation/01_ManageProducts.md

[!!Omni-Channel](Channels)   
[!!User Interface PIM](../UserInterface/00_UserInterface.md)   
[!!Manage the variants](./02_ManageVariants.md)

# Manage a product

A product defines everything that can be offered and purchased on a market. All products are assigned to an attribute set and can be specified by the attributes within this set. You can create master products and [variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants), edit and copy products. To offer a product on a marketplace you have to create an offer to the product, see [Create an offer in PIM](#create-an-offer-in-PIM).

## Create a product

Create a product to offer it on a marketplace. You can create a product or create variants, see [Create variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants). In the following, the procedure to create a product is described.

#### Prerequisites

> An attribute set is created, see [Create an attribute set](../Integration/02_ManageAttributeSets.md#Create-an-attribute-set).

Reviewer: An Attribute set does not have to be created, you can in theory also use the PIM Base set. But it is recommended to create AttributeSets in order to avoid having to many unnecessary Attributes in the Attribute set.

#### Procedure
*PIM > Products > Tab LIST*

![Product list](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Products.png "[Product list]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Create new product* window is displayed.

  ![Create new product](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/CreateNewProduct.png "[Create new product]")

> 2. Select an attribute set in the *Attribute set* drop-down list. All active attribute sets are displayed in the drop-down list.

Reviewer: All active Attributesets for PIMProducts are displayed.

3. Enter a SKU for the product in the *SKU* field.

>   > [Info] The SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) is an identification number for the product. Therefore, it should be uniquely assigned to a single product.

Reviewer: The SKU has to be unique within the PIM

4. Click the [CREATE] button.   
  The *Create Product* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected.

  ![Attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Attributes/AttributesCreate.png "[Attributes]")

> 5. Enter the data for the product in the *Attributes* tab. You must at least complete the *Product Name*, *Price* and *Tax class* fields.   

Reviewer: You dont have to set name/price/tax information in the product, it is generally valid to save a completely empty product.
But it is recommended to at least save the basic information.

  > [Info] All fields marked with the note *(required)* are used for the completeness calculation of product attributes. You can enable the *show empty required attributes only* toggle to display only the incomplete required attribute fields for the selected product.

6. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   

>   The new product is saved. The *Create product* view is closed. The product list with the new product is displayed.

Reviewer: The new Product might not be in the Product list. Without any special sorting it will be on the last page of the list.

## Edit products

> After you have created a product, you can edit it. You can either edit a single product or use the mass editing function to edit the same attribute values in several products using a wizard. Depending on the attribute settings, not all attribute values are editable.

Reviewer: There are some other conditions aswell, that might make an attribute not editable:
- If you are currently editing a variant Product and the Attribute is configured to be copied down from the parent
- If the attribute is set via an ETL mapping

### Edit a single product

Edit one or several attribute values for a single product.

#### Prerequisites

At least one product is created, see [Create a product](#create-a-product).

#### Procedure
*PIM > Products > Tab LIST*

![Product list](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Products.png "[Product list]")

> 1. Click the product you want to edit in the list of products.   

Reviewer: Make sure the Product is not currently frozen (opened by another user), as you will not be able to save changes in that case.
A frozen Product is displayed as greyed out in the list and a display to the right of the grid shows which user is currently editing the product.

  The *Mass Editing* side bar is displayed on the right side.

  ![Mass editing](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditing.png "[Mass editing]")

  > [Info] You can still add products to the mass editing process when the side bar is displayed. Just select the checkboxes of the products in the list and click the [MASS EDITING >] button in the editing toolbar to add the selected products to the mass editing list.    
  To remove a product from the mass editing list, click the ![Remove](../../Assets/Icons/Trash01.png "[Remove]") (Remove) button right to the respective product. The ![Remove](../../Assets/Icons/Trash01.png "[Remove]") (Remove) button is only displayed if you hover over a product in the list.

3. Click the [START] button in the upper right corner of the side bar to start the mass editing wizard.   
  The *Select Attributes* wizard window is displayed.

  ![Select attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/SelectAttributes.png "[Select attributes]")

4. Select the checkboxes of the attributes you want to edit and click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner.   

>   The *Select Channels and Languages* wizard window is displayed.

Reviewer: The Select Scopes and Languages window is only displayed, if at least one of the selected attributes is multilanguage/scopeable

  ![Select channels and languages](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/SelectChannelsLanguages.png "[Select channels and languages]")

5. Select the appropriate channels and languages by selecting the corresponding checkboxes in the *Select Channels* and *Select Languages* sections and click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Editing* wizard window with the selected products and their attributes to be edited is displayed.

  ![Editing](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/Editing.png "[Editing]")

> 6. Edit the desired data of the products in the corresponding fields and click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner.   

Reviewer: By clicking on the tree dots to the right of each attribute you can apply the current value of the attribute to all products in the list/the selected products in the list

The *Applying Changes* wizard window and the *Mass editing has been triggered* pop-up window are displayed.

  ![Mass editing triggered](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/MassEditingTriggered.png "[Mass editing triggered]")

>   The progress bar in the *Applying Changes* wizard window displays **100%** when the changes has been applied.

Reviewer: Applying the changes is done by a Job in the background, so it is in theory possible to already close the wizard before the progress bar reaches 100%

[!!Omni-Channel](../../Channels/Overview/01_General.md)   
[!!User Interface Product list](../UserInterface/02a_List.md)   
[!!Manage the variants](./02_ManageVariants.md)

# Manage a product

> A product defines everything that can be offered and purchased on a market. All products are assigned to an attribute set and can be specified by the attributes within this set. You can create master products and [variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants), edit and copy products. To offer a product on a marketplace you have to create an offer to the product, see [Create an offer in PIM](#create-an-offer-in-PIM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create master products and [variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants), edit and copy products. 
```

Verlinkung so oder "variants" ohne Verlinkung und dann im neuen Satz, z.B.: To manage product variants, see [Manage variants](./02_ManageVariants.md).

> A product defines everything that can be offered and purchased on a market. All products are assigned to an attribute set and can be specified by the attributes within this set. You can create master products and [variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants), edit and copy products. To offer a product on a marketplace you have to create an offer to the product, see [Create an offer in PIM](#create-an-offer-in-PIM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A product defines everything that can be offered and purchased on a market. All products are assigned to an attribute set and can be specified by the attributes within this set. You can create, edit and copy products./Products can be created, edited and copied. A master product can include a single or multiple variants, see [Create variants] (./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants). To offer a product on a marketplace you have to create an offer to the product, see [Create an offer in PIM](#create-an-offer-in-PIM).

```
Oder so was. Die Verlinkung in "variants" finde ich seltsam.

## Create a product

> Create a product to offer it on a marketplace. You can create a product or create variants, see [Create variants](./02_ManageVariants.md#create-variants). In the following, the procedure to create a product is described.

Reviewer 2: Vielleicht ist hier die Info zu den Variants überflüssig, da schon erwähnt? Außerdem, um variants zu erstellen, muss man zuerst ein Produkt erstellt haben, oder?

An attribute set has been created, see [Create an attribute set](../Integration/02_ManageAttributeSets.md#Create-an-attribute-set).

> [Info] By default, the *PIM Basic Set* attribute set has been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*.

#### Procedure
*PIM > Products > Tab LIST*

![Product list](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Products.png "[Product list]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Create new product* window is displayed.

  ![Create new product](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/CreateNewProduct.png "[Create new product]")

2. Select an attribute set in the *Attribute set* drop-down list. All active attribute sets for the PIM products are displayed in the drop-down list.

3. Enter a SKU for the product in the *SKU* field.

  > [Info] The SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) is an identification number for the product. Therefore, it should be unique within the *PIM* module.

4. Click the [CREATE] button.   
  The *Create Product* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected.

  ![Attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Attributes/AttributesCreate.png "[Attributes]")

> 5. Enter the data for the product in the *Attributes* tab. It is recommended to complete at least the *Product Name*, *Price* and *Tax class* fields.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Enter the product data in the *Attributes* tab. It is recommended to complete at least the *Product Name*, *Price* and *Tax class* fields.   
```

>   > [Info] All fields marked with the note *(required)* are used for the completeness calculation of product attributes. You can enable the *show empty required attributes only* toggle to display only the incomplete required attribute fields for the selected product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > [Info] All fields marked with the note *(required)* are used for the completeness calculation of product attributes. You can enable the *Show empty required attributes only* toggle to display only the incomplete required attribute fields for the selected product.
```

6. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The new product has been saved and is added to the product list. The *Create product* view is closed. The product list is displayed.

## Edit products

After you have created a product, you can edit it. You can either edit a single product or use the mass editing function to edit the same attribute values in several products using a wizard. Depending on the attribute settings, not all attribute values are editable. Further, attributes that are either inherited from a master product or set by an ETL mapping cannot be edited.   

> Note that a product which is currently being edited by another user is frozen and displayed grayed out in the product list. Changes to this product cannot be saved until the other user will close the corresponding product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that a product which is currently being edited by another user is frozen and displayed (as) locked in the product list. Changes to this product cannot be saved until the other user closes the corresponding product.
```

5. Select the appropriate channels and languages by selecting the corresponding checkboxes in the *Select Channels* and *Select Languages* sections and click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Editing* wizard window with the selected products and their attributes to be edited is displayed.

  ![Editing](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/Editing.png "[Editing]")

6. Edit the desired data of the products in the corresponding fields.  

  > [Info] Click the ![Points](../../Assets/Icons/Points02.png "[Points]") (Points) button next to an attribute value field to apply the corresponding value to either all attributes in the column or to the attributes in the column of the selected products.   

7.  Click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner.   
The *Applying Changes* wizard window and the *Mass editing has been triggered* pop-up window are displayed.

  ![Mass editing triggered](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/MassEditingTriggered.png "[Mass editing triggered]")

  The progress bar in the *Applying Changes* wizard window displays **100%** when the changes has been applied.

>   > [Info] As the change job is executed in the background, the wizard window can be closed before the progress bar reaches **100%**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > [Info] As the change process is executed in the background, the wizard window can be closed before the progress bar reaches **100%**.
```
Job klingt soooo IT für mich... ; )

  ![Applying changes](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/MassEditingWizard/ApplyingChanges.png "[Applying changes]")

8. Click the [FINALIZE] button in the bottom right corner.   
  The changes have been saved. The *Applying Changes* wizard window is closed.

## Copy a product

Use the copy function to duplicate a product and its properties to create a similar product where you only have to adjust individual attributes.

#### Prerequisites

At least one product has been created, see [Create a product](#create-a-product).

#### Procedure
*PIM > Products > Tab LIST*

![Product list](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Products.png "[Product list]")

1. Select the checkbox of the product you want to copy.   
  The editing toolbar is displayed above the product list.

2. Click the [COPY PRODUCT] button in the toolbar.   

>   The *Edit Product (Copy)* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected. All attribute values from the selected product are adopted to the copied product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The *Edit Product (Copy)* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected. All attribute values from the selected product are adopted/included in the copied product.
```

  ![Attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Attributes/AttributesCopy.png "[Attributes]")

3. Click the *SKU* field and edit the SKU for the new product.

  > [Info] The SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) is an identification number for the product. Therefore, it should be unique within the *PIM* module.

4. Click the  *Product Name* field and edit the product name for the new product.

> 5. Add or edit the data for the product in the *Attributes* tab. It is recommended to complete at least the *Product Name*, *Price* and *Tax class* fields.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Add or edit the product data in the *Attributes* tab. It is recommended to complete at least the *Product Name*, *Price* and *Tax class* fields.   
```

>   > [Info] All fields marked with the note *(required)* are used for the completeness calculation of product attributes. You can enable the *show empty required attributes only* toggle to display only the incomplete required attribute fields for the selected product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > [Info] All fields marked with the note *(required)* are used for the completeness calculation of product attributes. You can enable the *Show empty required attributes only* toggle to display only the incomplete required attribute fields for the selected product.
```

Wo ist der Toggle? Link?

6. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   

>   The product has been saved and is added to the product list. The *Edit Product (Copy)* view is closed. The product list is displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The product has been saved and is added to the product list. The *Edit Product "Name"* view is closed. The product list is displayed.
```
Namenfeld kann man auch bearbeiten (Edit Icon). Info dazu? Man wird i.d.R. dem neuen Produkt einen neuen Namen geben, dann wird es nicht mehr "Copy" heißen, oder? Ich kann es selber nicht prüfen; ich bekomme eine Fehlermeldung (cannot Copy).

## Create an offer in PIM

Create an offer to a product so you can sell the product in a selected connection. In the *PIM* module you can  create offers to all PIM products. You can either create an offer for a single connection or multiple connections.

### Create a single connection offer in PIM

If you want to offer the product on a single connection only or you have just one connection created, it is recommended to create a single connection offer.

#### Prerequisites

- At least one product has been created, see [Create a product](#create-a-product).    

> - At least one connection has been created.

Reviewer 2: Wo? Wie?
In Integration/05_ConfigureChannels.md steht folgende Info, verlinkte Datei existiert aber noch nicht:
[Info] A channel is not equal to a marketplace or web store connection. You can create a channel and use it for another connection. For detailed information about creating a new connection, see [Create a connection](https://github.com/Actindo-AG/Documentation/blob/ACD-315/PIM/Integration/to_be_completed).

  + Select the appropriate option for change tracking in the *Change Tracking Mode* section:   
   ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *manual*: Changes in a PIM product must be triggered manually to be applied to the offer. The initial offer is automatically applied.   
   ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *semi-automatic*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer after confirmation in the *Omni-Channel* module. The initial offer is automatically applied without confirmation.   
   ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *semi-automatic, changes must be confirmed by another user*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer after confirmation in the *Omni-Channel* module by another user. The initial offer is only applied after confirmation by another user.    
   ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *automatic*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer. The initial offer is also automatically applied.

> 

Reviewer 2: Evtl. Optionen und Erklärungen in separaten Zeilen (übersichtlicher)

  + Click the *Offer Status* drop-down list and select the initial offer status. The statuses below are available:   
    + **active**: The offer is active. It is displayed in the selected connection and can be sold there.   
    + **inactive**: The offer is inactive. It is not displayed in the selected connection and cannot be sold there.   
    + **offline**: The offer is unknown to the selected connection and cannot be sold there.   

> 

Reviewer 2: s.o.

6. Click the [SAVE] button in the bottom right corner of the *Create Offer* window.   
The single offer is added to the list of offers. The *Create Offer* window is closed.

  > [Info] The product must be saved to start the creation process of the offer.

> 7. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner of the *Edit product* view.   
```

>   The *Edit Product* view is closed. The *LIST* tab with the product list is displayed again. The new offer will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The *Edit Product* view is closed. The *LIST* tab with the product list is displayed again. The new offer has been created.
```

>   > [Info] It may take some time until the offer has been finally created.

Reviewer 2: Vorher "will be created" ist wahrscheinlich aus einem Grund da, aber spricht das positiv übers Produkt? Is es sinnvoll, es so zu formulieren? Oder ist die Erstellung vom Offer von anderen Sachen abhängig?

### Create a multi-connection offer in PIM

> To create offers to a product for several connections at the same time, you can use the multi-connection wizard.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create offers for a product for several connections at the same time, you can use the multi-connection wizard.  
```
Präp. to oder for?

  ![Add Offer](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Offers/AddEdit.png "[Add Offer]")

4. Click the [Add to multiple connections ![Multiple connections](../../Assets/Icons/Documents.png "[Multiple connections]") ] button to create an offer from the selected PIM product to multiple connections.   
  The *Select connections and status* wizard window is displayed.

   ![Select connections and status](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Offers/MultipleConnections01.png "[Select connections and status]")

5. Configure the following settings:

  + Click the *Offer Status* drop-down list and select the initial offer status. The statuses below are available:   
    + **active**: The offer is active. It is displayed in the selected connection and can be sold there.   
    + **inactive**: The offer is inactive. It is not displayed in the selected connection and cannot be sold there.   
    + **offline**: The offer is unknown to the selected connection and cannot be sold there.   

> 

Reviewer 2: Beschreibung der Status in neuer Zeile? s.o.

  + Select the appropriate option for the change tracking mode:   
     ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *manual*: Changes in a PIM product must be triggered manually to be applied to the offer. The initial offer is automatically applied.   
     ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *semi-automatic*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer after confirmation in the *Omni-Channel* module. The initial offer is automatically applied without confirmation.   
     ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *semi-automatic, changes must be confirmed by another user*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer after confirmation in the *Omni-Channel* module by another user. The initial offer is only applied after confirmation by another user.    
     ![Radionbutton](../../Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radiobutton]") *automatic*: Changes in a PIM product are automatically applied to the offer. The initial offer is also automatically applied.

> 

Reviewer 2: Beschreibung der Status in neuer Zeile? s.o.

>   + Enable the toggles of the connections for which you want to create offers in the *Select connections* section. If you want to create an offer for all displayed connections, click the [SELECT ALL] button to enable all toggles. All active connections are displayed in the list.    

Reviewer 2: Beschreibung der Status in neuer Zeile? s.o.

6. Click the [CONTINUE] button in the bottom right corner of the window.   
  The *Select destination attribute sets* wizard window is displayed.

   ![Select destination attribute sets](../../Assets/Screenshots/PIM/Products/List/Offers/MultipleConnections02.png "[Select destination attribute sets]")

   > [Info] The attribute destination sets for the selected connections are automatically selected. You cannot edit the selection.

  [comment]: <> (Is that correct? Why does this window exist when I cannot make any changes?)

7. Click the [FINISH] button in the bottom right corner of the window.   
  The new offers are added to the list of offers. The *Select destination attribute sets* wizard window is closed.

  > [Info] The product must be saved to start the creation process of the offers.

> 8. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner of the *Edit product* view.   
```

The *Edit Product* view is closed. The *LIST* tab with the product list is displayed again. The new offers will be created.

>   > [Info] It may take some time until the offers have been finally created.

Reviewer 2: s. Kommentare oben (single connection)
